---
title: "ðŸ¤”ðŸ® What's up? - ARM64 Integration"
date: 2023-07-31T09:15:10+02:00
draft: false

author: Niklas Meyer/DerLinkman
authorLink: "https://github.com/DerLinkman"
toc: false

license: ""

tags: ["2023", "faq", "news", "status", "arm64"]
categories: ["What's up?", "News"]

---

**Moohoo everyone!**

More than a month we have not heard from us and today just like that a shadowdrop as an update.

Since we have some things to discuss and also want to communicate directly in the future, we have come up with a section that we call **What's up?**.

Today we start directly with the first topic, namely **ARM64**:

We had originally announced to make mailcow ARM64 ready by June 2023. Obviously that didn't quite work out. However, we still want to provide this and are continuing to work on it. However, there are a few difficulties in making a faultless transition from mailcow to ARM64.

These are not really noticeable for the main operation, but bother us so much that we leave the whole thing on hold so far.

> What is it you ask?

Nice that you ask! It's about the Hyperscan library or the implementation of Hyperscan or Vectorscan (as it's called on ARM64) for Rspamd. Said Hyperscan compiles regular regex entries, which are dynamically generated by mailcow and are needed for spam detection. To be more precise, Hyperscan serves as a performance boost here, since the compilation of the regex entries does not have to happen over and over again, but remains compiled.

> What is the problem?

The problem now is that said Hyperscan (Vectorscan) does not work properly on ARM64 at the current time or the compilation is invalid after a restart because it can no longer load it. But it has to be said that Rspamd just got native ARM64 support with the current version 3.5 and thus can still have some bugs.

The main reason why we hold back the ARM64 support (although the actual functionality is already given and has been successfully tested by some testers [THANKS]) is that it comes with some warnings in the console, which can confuse or scare inexperienced users. Also, due to this problem, an equivalent performance cannot be guaranteed.

Additionally there is the fact that some important core components like Dovecot (in particular) have to be compiled by ourselves with the nightly release of ARM64, because the Dovecot team will not offer native ARM64 support and we get the packages in the mailcow stack directly from them and not via the APT repo of Debian like we do with Postfix for example.

This may have unforeseen consequences at this time, which will need to be clarified in a larger test round.

We don't want to just "throw in" ARM64 support just so we can say "Hey, mailcow can do ARM64 now, look!!!" but integrate it into the normal release cycle and the normal mailcow architecture so that we can maintain not two repos, but a single repo with the same content for x86 and ARM64.

So in the end everyone benefits from it.

> What does it mean for ARM64 support?

We are still working on the support and will really start implementing said changes in the nightly branch soon. However, it will take some time until the whole thing will be moved to the normal stable branch and everyone can use it as they like.

So in short: We don't want to guarantee a full release this year. We hope for it of course.

Of course we will let you know as soon as there are any news.

Now you know what's going on with ARM64 and why it's stagnating, although it didn't look like that at first.

Maybe some of you are thinking now:
> "Because of such a trifle you don't release it?".

And probably you won't be completely wrong, but we don't want to do any experiments *fastly*.

---

We plan to publish such "Ask the Developer" like blogposts more often now and inform you more directly about the current state.

For all LDAP fans I can also announce a similar post in the style of "Ask the Developer". But that will be done by Patrick, when he is ready to tell you something about it.

Otherwise, what always applies:

Stay healthy and happy mailing!

Your mailcow Team
> Niklas aka. DerLinkman